# Food Inspection Project
Regular inspection of restaurants and other food establishments are necessary to ensure well-being and safety of the public consumers. I propose to investigate what factors might be related to inspection passing rate. Revealing these underlying factors might help food inspectors more efficiently plan their inspection routine and better monitor the possible health risks in those establishments. The data I used is from inspections of restaurants and other food establishments in Chicago from January 1, 2010 to Nov 1, 2019.

One of the factors I analyzed is the risk category of facility. The facility is categorized according to its risk of adversely affecting the public's health. Risk 1 establishments have the highest risk and are inspected most frequently while risk 3 ones have the lowest risk and are inspected least frequently. I calculate the inspection passing rate for each risk category (establishments found to be out of business or not located are not included in the analysis). Overall, risk 1 and risk 2 establishments have higher passing rate comparing to risk 3 ones, which are supposed to possess the lowest risk. I further breakdown the inspection ratio by years and similar pattern is observed in every single year. It is possible that more frequent inspections led to risk 1 and risk 2 establishments to pay more attention to enforce safety regulations. Therefore, I suggest that frequency of inspection might positively affect passing rate and further analysis need to eliminate possible artifacts. 

I have also examined whether Facility Type or Inspection Type affect inspection passing rate. There are a lot of inconsistency when the data was entered, such as lowercase and uppercase issues, spelling, typo, etc. So I was not able to efficiently categorize based on facility type. For Inspection Type, I managed to clear the data by ignoring the lowercase and uppercase issues and eliminating records with low counts (most of them are single entry due to typo or spelling issues). Canvass, Complaint, License are 3 major inspection types and re-inspection are often required if violations exist. The bar graph clearly shows that re-inspection of these 3 inspection types has higher passing rate, which suggests food establishments put more emphasis to ensure safety when re-inspection is expected. 

It is very likely the strategy of inspection affect inspection passing rate. Establishments tend to be more prepared if they are categorized as high risk and experience more inspection or if they are expecting possible re-inspection. I hope these information can help food inspection department to better plan their inspection strategy to better supervise the food safety in the community.
